Spring Boot single-page app tutorial (#883)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2021-09-12-spring-boot-spa.md

---
layout: blog_post

> title: "Build a Single-Page App with Vue and Spring Boot"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Learn How to Build a Single-Page App with Vue and Spring Boot"
```

higher score, neutral sentiment

> layout: blog_post
> title: "Spring Boot Single-Page App"
> author: andrew-hughes
> by: advocate|contractor
> communities: [devops,security,mobile,.net,java,javascript,go,php,python,ruby]
> description: ""
> tags: []
> tweets:
> - ""
> - ""
> - ""
>   image:
>   type: awareness|conversion
> 
> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
layout: blog_post
title: "Spring Boot Single-Page App"
author: andrew-hughes
by: contractor
communities: [java,javascript]
description: ""
tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
  image:
  type: conversion
---
```

You can also go to the `profile` page at http://localhost:8080/profile, which will show you all of the claims in the authenticated token.

{% img blog/spring-boot-spa/profile-page.png alt:"Profile page" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

## Conclusion

In this post you saw how to use Spring Boot to create a simple resource server and Vue to create a front-end client. You saw how to use Okta to implement a secure application stack. The front-end client used the Okta Sign-In Widget to implement the OAuth 2.0 authorization code flow with PKCE for a secure token exchange. The resource server was also secured using Okta by including Okta's Spring Boot Starter, which made adding JWT auth to the project quick and easy.

To learn more about OAuth 2.0 and OIDC, check out these blog posts

> 
> - [Easy Single Sign-On with Spring Boot and OAuth 2.0](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2019/05/02/spring-boot-single-sign-on-oauth-2)
> - [Add Social Login to Your Spring Boot 2.0 App](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/07/24/social-spring-boot)
> - [Build a CRUD App with Vue.js, Spring Boot, and Kotlin](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2020/06/26/spring-boot-vue-kotlin)
> - [Use PKCE with OAuth 2.0 and Spring Boot for Better Security](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2020/01/23/pkce-oauth2-spring-boot)
> - [Migrate Your Spring Boot App to the Latest and Greatest Spring Security and OAuth 2.0](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2019/03/05/spring-boot-migration) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- [Easy Single Sign-On with Spring Boot and OAuth 2.0](/blog/2019/05/02/spring-boot-single-sign-on-oauth-2)
- [Add Social Login to Your Spring Boot 2.0 App](/blog/2018/07/24/social-spring-boot)
- [Build a CRUD App with Vue.js, Spring Boot, and Kotlin](/blog/2020/06/26/spring-boot-vue-kotlin)
- [Use PKCE with OAuth 2.0 and Spring Boot for Better Security](/blog/2020/01/23/pkce-oauth2-spring-boot)
- [Migrate Your Spring Boot App to the Latest and Greatest Spring Security and OAuth 2.0](/blog/2019/03/05/spring-boot-migration) 
```
Use relative links

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Spring Boot Single-Page App"
author: andrew-hughes
by: advocate|contractor
communities: [devops,security,mobile,.net,java,javascript,go,php,python,ruby]
description: ""
tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:

> type: awareness|conversion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
layout: blog_post
title: "Build a Secure SPA with a Spring Boot Backend"
author: andrew-hughes
by: contractor
communities: [java,javascript]
description: ""
tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: conversion
```

Reviewer 2: we should possibly tweak the title a bit more, I'll try to mess with it

---

## Vue and Spring-Boot Single-Page Application

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> In this tutorial you are going to create a single-page application that uses a Spring Boot resource server and a Vue front-end client. You'll see how to configure Spring Boot to use JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication and authorization, with Okta as an OAuth 2. 0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider. You'll also see how to bootstrap a Vue client app with the Vue CLI and how to secure it using the Okta Sign-In Widget.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you are going to create a single-page application (SPA) that uses a Spring Boot resource server and a Vue front-end client. You'll see how to configure Spring Boot to use JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication and authorization, with Okta as an OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider. You'll also see how to bootstrap a Vue client app with the Vue CLI and how to secure it using the Okta Sign-In Widget.
```
removed an additional space

> Okta is a computer security services company that provides a lot of great resources for securing web applications. The widget is a great way to secure front-end applications because it allows you to easily add a secure login form that is configurable for single sign-on and social sign-on with external providers such as Google, Facebook, and LinkedIn. It provides an implementation of the authorization code OAuth 2.0 flow using PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Okta is a computer security services company that provides a lot of great resources for securing web applications. The Okta Sign-In Widget is a great way to secure front-end applications because it allows you to easily add a secure login form that is configurable for single sign-on and social sign-on with external providers such as Google, Facebook, and LinkedIn. It provides an implementation of the authorization code OAuth 2.0 flow using PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange). 
```

PKCE is a modification of the authorization code flow that does not require the application to have the client secret, making it suitable for client applications where the code is essentially public. Implementing a secure authorization code flow on a front-end application requires properly handing redirects and the token exchange, which can be a little involved. Fortunately, Okta has simplified this process greatly, handling a lot of the complexity for you.

## Requirements

Before you get started, you'll need to make sure you have a few tools installed.

> **Okta CLI**: The Okta CLI is an easy way to create projects that use Okta for security. Follow the installation instructions on the [Okta CLI project website](https://cli.okta.com/manual/#installation). You should login to your existing account or register for a new account using the CLI before continuing with the tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Okta CLI**: The Okta CLI is an easy way to create projects that use Okta for security. Follow the installation instructions on the [Okta CLI project website](https://cli.okta.com/manual/#installation). You should log in to your existing account or register for a new account using the CLI before continuing with this tutorial.
```
log in is two words as a verb

**Java 11**: This project uses Java 11. OpenJDK 11 will work just as well.  Instructions are found on the [OpenJDK website](https://openjdk.java.net/install/). OpenJDK can also be installed using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/). Alternatively, [SDKMAN](https://sdkman.io/) is another excellent option for installing and managing Java versions.

**Vue CLI**: You'll use the Vue CLI to generate the starter Vue client project. Install it according to the [the instructions on the Vue website](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/installation.html).

## Create The Spring Boot Resource Server

> To bootstrap the Spring Boot resource server project, you will use [the Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/). It's designed to help developers quickly configure and generate Spring Boot projects. There's [a great web interface](https://start.spring.io/) that's you should take a look at. However, in this project, you're going to use the REST interface to download a pre-configured project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To bootstrap the Spring Boot resource server project, you will use [the Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/). It's designed to help developers quickly configure and generate Spring Boot projects. There's [a great web interface](https://start.spring.io/) that you should take a look at. However, in this project, you're going to use the REST interface to download a pre-configured project.
```
that's -> that

This project will have both a Vue client and a Spring Boot server project, so you may want to make a parent directory called something like `Spring Boot SPA`. Use the following command to download and extract the starter project in the parent directory. 

```bash
curl https://start.spring.io/starter.tgz \
-d type=maven-project \
-d language=java \

> -d platformVersion=2.5.2.RELEASE \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-d platformVersion=2.5.4 \
```

-d jvmVersion=11 \
-d artifactId=spring-boot-spa \
-d baseDir=spring-boot-spa \
-d packageName=com.okta.springbootspa \
-d group=com.okta \
-d dependencies=web,okta \
| tar -xzvf -	
```

The command above configures various aspects of the Spring Boot project, including the Spring Boot version and the Java version. It also configures two dependencies. 

- The first, `web`, includes Spring MVC, Spring's standard web package.

- The second, `okta`, includes Okta's Spring Boot starter. 

> You can check out [the Okta Spring Boot Starter project on GitHub](https://github.com/okta/okta-spring-boot) for more info, but briefly, it streamlines using Okta to secure Spring Boot projects. For a resource server, you would typically need to include the Spring Security OAuth Resource Server dependency, but the Okta Spring Boot starter includes this for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check out [the Okta Spring Boot Starter project on GitHub](https://github.com/okta/okta-spring-boot) for more info, but briefly, it streamlines the use of Okta to secure Spring Boot projects. For a resource server, you would typically need to include the Spring Security OAuth Resource Server dependency, but the Okta Spring Boot Starter includes this for you.
```
consistent capitalization

					"Head on table asleep. Needs coffee now!",
					"Not at all. What's wrong?!",
					"Mildly. Boring.",
					"Making progress.",
					"Everything is awesome. Stuff is definitely happening.",
					"Eyeballs are rolling around in my head and I'm shouting at my coworker about JHipster.",
					"The LD50 of caffeine is 100 cups. Your developer has had 99 and is talking to the bike rack outside while jogging in place."
			);
			Random rand = new Random();
			String caffeineLevelString = givenList.get(rand.nextInt(givenList.size()));
			return caffeineLevelString;
		}

		@GetMapping("/howcaffeinatedami")
		public String getCaffeineLevel(Principal principal) {
			String userName = principal != null ? principal.getName() : "Anonymous";
			return userName + ", your developer's caffeine level is: " + getCaffeineLevel();
		}

	}

	@Configuration
	@EnableWebSecurity
	class SecurityConfiguration extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

		@Override
		protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
			http.cors().and()
					.authorizeRequests(authorizeRequests -> authorizeRequests.anyRequest().authenticated())
					.oauth2ResourceServer().jwt();
		}

	}

> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
package com.okta.springbootspa;

import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.builders.HttpSecurity;
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.configuration.EnableWebSecurity;
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.configuration.WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.CrossOrigin;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;

import java.security.Principal;
import java.util.Arrays;
import java.util.List;
import java.util.Random;

@SpringBootApplication
public class DemoApplication {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(DemoApplication.class, args);
    }

    @RestController
    @CrossOrigin
    class CaffeineLevelRestController {

        String getCaffeineLevel() {
            List<String> givenList = Arrays.asList(
                    "Head on table asleep. Needs coffee now!",
                    "Not at all. What's wrong?!",
                    "Mildly. Boring.",
                    "Making progress.",
                    "Everything is awesome. Stuff is definitely happening.",
                    "Eyeballs are rolling around in my head and I'm shouting at my coworker about JHipster.",
                    "The LD50 of caffeine is 100 cups. Your developer has had 99 and is talking to the bike rack outside while jogging in place."
            );
            Random rand = new Random();
            String caffeineLevelString = givenList.get(rand.nextInt(givenList.size()));
            return caffeineLevelString;
        }

        @GetMapping("/howcaffeinatedami")
        public String getCaffeineLevel(Principal principal) {
            String userName = principal != null ? principal.getName() : "Anonymous";
            return userName + ", your developer's caffeine level is: " + getCaffeineLevel();
        }
    }

    @Configuration
    @EnableWebSecurity
    class SecurityConfiguration extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {

        @Override
        protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
            http.cors().and()
                    .authorizeRequests(authorizeRequests -> authorizeRequests.anyRequest().authenticated())
                    .oauth2ResourceServer().jwt();
        }
    }
}
```

To spaces, the current formatting renders tabs at 8 spaces, so switch to spaces for now (4 spaces). I'll try to clean that up in another PR

Reviewer 2: NOTE: this is mostly to reduce horizontal scroll

```

This example resource server defines one endpoint, `/howcaffeinatedami`, that returns a random (and hopefully humorous) string designating your developer's current caffeine level. 

There is also an inner class (at the bottom) that extends `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter` to configure Spring Security for the application. The configuration class does three things: 

1. ensures that all requests require authentication; 

2. configures Spring Boot to use the standard resource server security configuration with JSON Web Tokens (JWT); and 

> 3. enables CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. enables CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing).

2. ensures that all requests require authentication; 

3. configures Spring Boot to use the standard resource server security configuration with JSON Web Tokens (JWT); and 
```

nit: re-order to match the order of the example code

You also need to add a line to the `application.properties` file. This line changes the resource server port from the default `8080` to `8082`. You have to do this because the VueJS application will run on `8080`.

`src/main/resources/application.properties`

```prop
server.port=8082
```

> You now have the code in place for the resource server. You'll still need to configure the OAuth 2.0 and OIDC settings to use Okta as the provider, but first, I want to explain a little about CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing). It's not just an annoying error your browsers throw at you when you're trying to develop apps locally! If you already totally understand CORS or are impatient to keep moving, feel free to skip the next section.

Reviewer 2: I love this!
> "It's not just an annoying error..."

## Spring Boot and CORS

> CORS is a protocol that allows for browsers and servers to explicitly allow cross-origin resource sharing. By default, Javascript running in a browser is restrained by a **same-origin policy**. This means that a Javascript application can only make calls to a server that resides on the same domain from which it was loaded. As a starting point, this makes a lot of sense from a security perspective and prevents a lot of abuse. However, this policy would be pretty restrictive if developers were not able to allow exceptions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CORS is a protocol that allows for browsers and servers to explicitly allow cross-origin resource sharing. By default, JavaScript running in a browser is restrained by a **same-origin policy**. This means that a Javascript application can only make calls to a server that resides on the same domain from which it was loaded. As a starting point, this makes a lot of sense from a security perspective and prevents a lot of abuse. However, this policy would be pretty restrictive if developers were not able to allow exceptions.
```

> CORS allows resource servers to explicitly enable cross-origin requests, to tell the browser what type of requests it allows and from what origins. It is a white-listing scheme in the sense that all cross-origin requests will be denied by the browser unless the server is explicitly configured to allow them. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CORS allows resource servers to explicitly enable cross-origin requests, to tell the browser what type of requests it allows and from what origins. It is an allow-list scheme in the sense that all cross-origin requests will be denied by the browser unless the server is explicitly configured to allow them. 
```

Use inclusive wording: https://www.okta.com/sites/default/files/2020-12/Okta_DIB_State_of_Inclusion.pdf
cc @havi not sure if this should be "allowlist" or some other alternative that fits here

Notice that this protocol is mediated between the server and the browser. The client application, the Vue app in this case, doesn't really have to do anything about CORS. From the perspective of the client app, the HTTP request to the resource server will either succeed or fail. If it fails because of CORS, the request will return a `401 (Unauthorized)`.

> In this example, the resource server resides on `http://localhost:8082` and the Vue client will be loaded from from the Vue development server at `http://localhost:8080`. Because the port number is part of the domain, these two URLs are considered different origins by the browser. When the Vue app tries to make a request to the Spring Boot resource server, the browser will throw an error unless CORS is properly configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the resource server resides on `http://localhost:8082` and the Vue client will be loaded from the Vue development server at `http://localhost:8080`. Because the port number is part of the domain, these two URLs are considered different origins by the browser. When the Vue app tries to make a request to the Spring Boot resource server, the browser will throw an error unless CORS is properly configured.
```
removed redundant word

Note that not every request will trigger a CORS check. Certain types of simple requests are allowed, particularly requests that only allow form and text content types and the `GET`, `HEAD`, and `POST` request types. Take a look at the [Mozilla developer docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) on this for more info. However, any request with the `Content-Type` header `application-json` will always trigger a CORS check if made to a cross-origin domain.

> The first thing the browser will do when a suitable request is made to a resource on a different domain is to send a CORS preflight request. This is actually a totally separate request made by the browser **before** sends the actual request. The CORS preflight request essentially asks the browser if it is configured for CORS, if it will allow the type of request the client wants to send (DELETE, GET, POST, etc.), and if it will allow requests from the specific origin domain. The preflight request has nothing to do with authentication or authorization in the way we normally speak about it. It's just a quick check to see if CORS is configured and if, in theory, the server might allow the request based on the HTTP verb and the client domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing the browser will do when a suitable request is made to a resource on a different domain is to send a CORS preflight request. This is actually a totally separate request made by the browser **before** it sends the actual request. The CORS preflight request essentially asks the browser if it is configured for CORS, if it will allow the type of request the client wants to send (DELETE, GET, POST, etc.), and if it will allow requests from the specific origin domain. The preflight request has nothing to do with authentication or authorization in the way we normally speak about it. It's just a quick check to see if CORS is configured and if, in theory, the server might allow the request based on the HTTP verb and the client domain.
```
missing pronoun

If the preflight header is not handled correctly, CORS will return an error to the client application. If the preflight header does not allow the type of request or does not allow requests from the client origin, CORS will also return an error to the client. The actual, original request to the server will never be made. Only once the preflight request has been properly handled will the browser allow the request from the client app to the resource server proceed.

Here is a general outline of a CORS request:

> - Javascript client app makes request to resource server on different domain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- JavaScript client app makes request to resource server on different domain
```

- Browser intercepts request, flags it as requiring CORS verification, and sends the CORS preflight request to the resource server
- Server responds to the preflight request by saying it will allow the client domain to make the type of request
- Browser sends the origin request to the server

> - Server handles original request, authenticating and authorizing it using OAuth 2.0 an OIDC before returning a reply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Server handles original request, authenticating and authorizing it using OAuth 2.0 and OIDC before returning a reply
```
fixing typo

From a developer perspective, CORS is something that needs to be configured on the server. Spring Boot makes this easy. There are two places in the Java code where CORS is configured. CORS must generally be enabled for the Spring Boot application. This is done in the `SecurityConfiguration` class in the `configure(HttpSecurity http)` method by adding the `cors()` method to the `http` configuration chain. 

The second place is the `@CrossOrigin` annotation on the `CaffeineLevelRestController` class. This tells Spring Boot to configure CORS for all endpoints in this controller. By default, this will allow cross-origin requests from any domain. To restrict requests to only our client application domain, we could have used the annotation `@CrossOrigin(origins = "http://localhost:8080")`.

Take a look at [this Spring blog post](https://spring.io/blog/2015/06/08/cors-support-in-spring-framework) for more info on Spring Boot and CORS.

> ## Use The Okta CLI To Configure The Resource Server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Use the Okta CLI to Configure the Resource Server
```

Tweaking title case, this _might_ shrink the line down so the # anchor doesn't wrap the line when hovered

> You should already have used the Okta CLI to either register a new account or log into an existing account. If not, please do so now. If you type `okta login`, you should see a message that says something like: `Okta Org already configured: https://dev-123456.okta.com/`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should already have used the Okta CLI to either register a new account or log into an existing account. If not, please do so now. If you type `okta login`, you should see a message that says something like: `Okta Org already configured: https://dev-133337.okta.com/`.
```

prefer `dev-133337`, we have reserved this Okta domain

You are going to use the CLI to configure the Spring Boot project to use Okta for JWT authentication. The CLI will create an OpenID Connect (OIDC) application on Okta's servers that will be the authentication and authorization provider for the resource server.

To start the configuration process, use the following command.

```bash

> okta apps create

Reviewer 3: You should be able to replace this whole section with a CLI include. https://developer.okta.com/blog/setup

 JHipster - http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/oidc
Enter your Redirect URI [http://localhost:8080/callback]: 
Enter your Post Logout Redirect URI [http://localhost:8080/]: 
Configuring a new OIDC Application, almost done:
Created OIDC application, client-id: 02b4cj4ys0G92cXYI4x7

Okta application configuration has been written to: /home/andrewcarterhughes/Development/okta/2021/spring-boot-spa/spring-boot-spa/.okta.env
```

This creates a configuration file, `.okta.env` that you can source to configure the application.

```bash
source .okta.env
```

**You will need to source this file each time you open a new console** to run the application. 

In a production scenario, you will need to ensure that these environment variables are loaded into the environment in which the Spring Boot application is running. **For security, it's also important that the file, and the client secret in particular, is not checked into source control or otherwise leaked.** Thus you may want to add `.okta.env` to the `.gitignore` of any similar projects you create (as I have here).

The `.okta.env` file is simply a script that exports the necessary properties.

```bash

> export OKTA_OAUTH2_ISSUER="https://dev-123456.okta.com/oauth2/default"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export OKTA_OAUTH2_ISSUER="https://dev-133337.okta.com/oauth2/default"
```

> export OKTA_OAUTH2_ISSUER="https://dev-123456.okta.com/oauth2/default"

Reviewer 2: You actually don't need to create an OAuth app on the Okta side when using JWT Access Tokens.
 Only the "issuer" is needed (you can stick it in the app.props file, or use the same environment variable).

That does create a chicken or an egg problem, as it's _nice_ to be able to copy the config values from the CLI,

One quick workaround someone can run `okta login` to display the current org:
> Okta Org already configured: https://dev-133337.okta.com

Longer explanation, For a resource server, the issuer allows for discovery of everything that is needed, except the expected values for the `aud` claim, which [defaults to `api://default`](https://github.com/okta/okta-spring-boot#configure-your-properties)

export OKTA_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID="02b4cj4ys0G92cXYI4x7"
```

You now have a working, secure resource server. Go ahead and run the application.

```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

You should get a lot of console output that ends with the following.

```bash
2021-09-01 11:49:42.136  INFO 370077 --- [           main] o.s.b.w.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer  : Tomcat started on port(s): 8082 (http) with context path ''
2021-09-01 11:49:42.143  INFO 370077 --- [           main] com.okta.springbootspa.DemoApplication   : Started DemoApplication in 2.021 seconds (JVM running for 2.199)
```

## Use The Vue CLI To Bootstrap The Client App

The next step is to build the front-end, client application. The application will use Vue and the Okta Sign-In Widget to implement a secure client application. The Okta Sign-In Widget allows you to easily add Single Sign-On (SSO) and a secure login form to any application.

The instructions below for integrating the Okta Sign-In widget with Vue are largely pulled from [this article](https://developer.okta.com/code/vue/okta_vue_sign-in_widget/#add-an-openid-connect-client-in-okta) on the Okta website, which is a great reference if you have any questions.

> Create the app using the Vue CLI. Run the following command from the project root directory (the directory above the spring boot project directory). It will create a new directory, `okta-app`, that will contain the client application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the app using the Vue CLI. Run the following command from the project root directory (the directory above the Spring Boot project directory). It will create a new directory, `okta-app`, which will contain the client application.
```
after a comma 'which' works better
capitalization

```bash
vue create okta-app
```

Select `Manually select features`.

Make sure `Router` and `Choose Vue version` are selected. `Babel` and `Linter / Formatter` were automatically selected for me as well, which is fine.

Select version `3.x`. 

Enable `history mode for router` (type `y`).

Select `ESLint with error prevention only`.

> The defaults for the remainder of the options are fine: lint on save, saving configuration in dedicated files, and not saving this as a preset.

Reviewer 2: nit: I get prompted to use `npm` or `yarn`, (yarn was the default for me), I chose `npm` as that's what is used below, but you might want to call that out.

I have no idea if this was a remembered pre-set from the last time I used the vue-cli 🤷

Navigate into the project directory.

```bash
cd okta-app
```

You need to install a few dependencies. The first three are required for Okta security and the sign-in widget. The last, `axios`, is the library you'll use to make the HTTP request to the resource server.

```bash
npm install --save \
@okta/okta-signin-widget \
@okta/okta-vue \
@okta/okta-auth-js \
axios
```

Create a `src/okta/index.js` file:

```vue
import OktaSignIn from '@okta/okta-signin-widget'
import { OktaAuth } from '@okta/okta-auth-js'

const yourOktaUri = '${yourOktaUri}';
const clientId = '${clientId}';

const oktaSignIn = new OktaSignIn({

>     baseUrl: `${yourOktaUri}`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    baseUrl: yourOktaUri,
```

Reviewer 2: match formatting of `clientId`

    clientId: clientId,
    redirectUri: 'http://localhost:8080/login/callback',
    authParams: {
        pkce: true,
        issuer: `${yourOktaUri}/oauth2/default`,
        display: 'page',
        scopes: ['openid', 'profile', 'email']
    }
});

const oktaAuth = new OktaAuth({
    issuer: `${yourOktaUri}/oauth2/default`,
    clientId: clientId,
    redirectUri: window.location.origin + '/login/callback',
    scopes: ['openid', 'profile', 'email']

> })

Reviewer 2: See the above comment about the redirect/"okta-hosted-login" example, but that might help DRY this config block out a little too:
https://github.com/okta/samples-js-vue/blob/master/okta-hosted-login/src/config.js#L5-L9

export { oktaAuth, oktaSignIn };
```

In the file above, **you need to replace the placeholders `${...}` with the appropriate values**. Before you can do this, however, you need to use the CLI to create the OIDC application on the Okta servers, which you will do directly below.

## Create A Single-Page OIDC Application On Okta

This time you're going to create a single-page application for the front-end (instead of the web application type you used for the resource server). Enter the following command into a shell.

```bash
okta apps create
```

Press `enter` to accept the default **Application name** `okta-app`. (Application name here refers to the OIDC application created on the Okta servers).

For **Type of Application**, Select `2: Single Page App`.

Change the **Redirect URI** to `http://localhost:8080/login/callback`.

Press `enter` to accept the default **Post Logout Redirect**.

You should see some output like the following.

```bash
Okta application configuration: 
Issuer:    https://{yourOktaUri}/oauth2/default
Client ID: {clientId}
```

The values in brackets will, of course, be your actual values. 

> **You need to go back to the `src/okta/index.js` file and replace the `yourOktaUri` and `clientId` variables at the top of the file with your values.** The value for `yourOktaUri` is the Okta URI without any further path specifiers. It will look like this: `https://dev-123456.okta.com`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**You need to go back to the `src/okta/index.js` file and replace the `yourOktaUri` and `clientId` variables at the top of the file with your values.** The value for `yourOktaUri` is the Okta URI without any further path specifiers. It will look like this: `https://dev-133337.okta.com`
```
consistency

> One of the things that the Okta CLI does for you is to add your application's base URL to the CORS trusted origins for the Okta auth server. This is necessary because the the Okta Sign-In Widget will be making cross0-origin requests, that, as noted above, would be blocked unless CORS is properly handled. You can see this by going to your Okta developer dashboard and selected **Security** and **API** from the left-side menu and selected **Trusted Origins** from the API tab. You'll see that (in this case) `http://localhost:8080` was added as a trusted origin of type `CORS Redirect`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the things that the Okta CLI does for you is to add your application's base URL to the CORS trusted origins for the Okta auth server. This is necessary because the the Okta Sign-In Widget will be making cross-origin requests, that, as noted above, would be blocked unless CORS is properly handled. You can see this by going to your Okta developer dashboard. with **Security** and **API** selected from the left-side menu, and **Trusted Origins** selected from the API tab. You'll see that (in this case) `http://localhost:8080` was added as a trusted origin of type `CORS Redirect`. 
```
typo
syntax adjusted

{% img blog/spring-boot-spa/trusted-origin.png alt:"Trusted origins for Okta CORS" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

You can read more about CORS and Okta in the [Okta documentation](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/enable-cors/overview/).

> ## Finish the Vue Front-End Client App

Reviewer 2: Can you update the example to redirect to a login page instead of an embedded log in.
There is an example here: https://github.com/okta/samples-js-vue/tree/master/okta-hosted-login

Let me know if you run into any issues

Reviewer 3: @bdemers This post is supposed to do embedded login to replace [this post](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2017/10/27/secure-spa-spring-boot-oauth) since it uses Spring Boot 2.1 and no longer works. Related: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-blog/issues/651

Reviewer 2: Ahh! thanks for calling that out! :D 
Sorry for the noise @moksamedia!

Author: So I should leave this as embedded, right?

Reviewer 2: @moksamedia yup, keep it as embedded

Author: Do y'all want to do another, separate post with the redirect? Would be pretty easy to knock out since I've just written this one.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, for the delay! The short answer is yes! but we should probably space out the post a bit

      <div>
        <router-link to="/">
          Home
        </router-link>
        <router-link to="/login" v-if="!authenticated">
          Login
        </router-link>
        <router-link to="/profile" v-if="authenticated" >
          Profile
        </router-link>
        <a v-if="authenticated" v-on:click="logout()">
          Logout
        </a>
      </div>
    </nav>
    <div id="content">
      <router-view/>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'app',
  data: function () {
    return { authenticated: false }
  },
  async created () {
    await this.isAuthenticated()
    this.$auth.authStateManager.subscribe(this.isAuthenticated)
  },
  watch: {
    // Everytime the route changes, check for auth status
    '$route': 'isAuthenticated'
  },
  methods: {
    async isAuthenticated () {
      this.authenticated = await this.$auth.isAuthenticated()
    },
    async logout () {
      await this.$auth.signOut()
    }
  }
}
</script>

<style>
nav div a { margin-right: 10px }
#app {
  width: 800px;
  margin: 0 auto;
}
a {
  text-decoration: underline;
  cursor: pointer;
}
</style>
```

Create `src/components/Home.vue` to define a home page.

> ```vue

Reviewer 2: @mraible the `{{tags}}` are not rendered, IIRC there is some passthrough raw trick for the blog to render them?

import HomeComponent from '@/components/Home'
import LoginComponent from '@/components/Login'
import ProfileComponent from '@/components/Profile'

const router = createRouter({
  history: createWebHistory(),
  routes: [
    {
      path: '/',
      component: HomeComponent,
      meta: {
        requiresAuth: true
      }
    },
    {
      path: '/login',
      component: LoginComponent
    },
    {
      path: '/login/callback',
      component: LoginCallback
    },
    {
      path: '/profile',
      component: ProfileComponent,
      meta: {
        requiresAuth: true
      }
    }
  ]
})

router.beforeEach(navigationGuard)

export default router
```

Replace the code in `src/main.js` with the following.

```js
import { createApp } from 'vue'
import App from './App.vue'
import router from './router'
import OktaVue from '@okta/okta-vue'
import { oktaAuth } from './okta';

createApp(App)
    .use(router)
    .use(OktaVue, {
        oktaAuth,
        onAuthRequired: () => {
            router.push('/login')
        },
        onAuthResume: () => {
            router.push('/login')
        },
    })
    .mount('#app')
```

You can now run the Vue app.

```bash

> npm run server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
npm run serve
```

```bash
source .okta.env
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

Open the app in your browser at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

Because the app is set to secure the home page, you will immediately be directed to the Okta login screen. Log in using your Okta credentials. 

{% img blog/spring-boot-spa/okta-sign-in.png alt:"Okta Sign-In Page" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

When you enter your credentials, the Okta Sign-In Widget and the Vue app will follow the OAuth 2. 0 Authorization Code flow. In this flow, the client sends the login credentials to the Okta auth server and, if authentication is successful, receives an authorization code. The client app calls the Okta token endpoint, trading this authorization code for a JWT (JSON Web Token). The standard OAuth 2.0 authorization code flow requires that the application send the client secret along with the code to the token endpoint. 

> However, in the context of a client-side application, putting the client secret in public, browser code would be a major security violation. Instead, Okta uses PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange). In this modified flow, the client generates a one-time key that is sent with the request and is associated with the authorized JWT. This is used to ensure that only the client that requested the JWT can use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in the context of a client-side application, putting the client secret in public browser code would be a major security violation. Instead, Okta uses PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange). In this modified flow, the client generates a one-time key that is sent with the request and is associated with the authorized JWT. This is used to ensure that only the client that requested the JWT can use it.
```
removed comma, because 'public' is the only working adjective here, modifying "browser code"

> There's a great, in-depth article on the PKCE flow [on the Okta Blog by Micah Silverman](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2019/08/22/okta-authjs-pkce).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's a great, in-depth article on the [PKCE flow](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2019/08/22/okta-authjs-pkce) by Micah Silverman on the Okta Dev Blog.
```
rearranged the hyperlink to add clearer context

Once you've logged in you'll see the simple application screen below.

{% img blog/spring-boot-spa/success-screen.png alt:"Our simple application" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Notice that it has pulled your name and email from your authentication information. It has also made an HTTP request to the Spring Boot REST server using the JWT to determine the caffeine level of your developer (the `/howcaffeinatedami` endpoint). Don't worry! Although the image above is reporting your developer's caffeine level is "not at all," never fear. I can promise you this is incorrect and simply a random response merely for mildly humorous effect.

You can also go to the `profile` page at http://localhost:8080/profile, which will show you all of the claims in the authenticated token.

{% img blog/spring-boot-spa/profile-page.png alt:"Profile page" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 2: nit: Add a more descriptive title, "Learn More About Building Vue and Spring Boot Apps", or something

> In this post you saw how to use Spring Boot to create a simple resource server and Vue to create a front-end client. You saw how to use Okta to implement a secure application stack. The front-end client used the Okta Sign-In Widget to implement the OAuth 2.0 authorization code flow with PKCE for a secure token exchange. The resource server was also secured using Okta by including Okta's Spring Boot Starter, which made adding JWT auth to the project quick and easy.

Reviewer 2: Can you add a few references to other related posts?
